welcome to San Francisco in the first
drive of the 2011 kia sportage this is
the third generation Sportage and the
Sportage is actually the car that helped
launch Kia back in 1996
remember those Sportage is back then and
it's really all Kia's in general prior
to about 2008 you know they were really
just cheap alternatives to Toyotas you
couldn't afford a Toyota or Honda what
would you do you buy a Kia you know no
longer you look at this car it's no
longer a poor man's Toyota this is
really a poor man's outing you know the
designer the head designer for Kia right
now is Peter Schreyer he came from Audi
so he brought a lot of those design
elements as you can see you've got this
clamshell hood you got the nice big
headlights look at these wheels they
fill up the wheel well real nice and
just the whole thing this works the
Sportage is available in three trim
levels at launch time you have a base an
LX and the top-of-the-line e^x the base
starts at $19,000 for the front wheel
drive version and you can get a manual
transmission the LX and E X go upscale
from there with more features and
functionality what you're looking at
here is the top-of-the-line e^x with
all-wheel drive panoramic sunroof and
navigation just under $30,000 and when
you think about that price tag compared
to its main competitors the Toyota rav4
the CRV maybe the Nissan Rogue it's
right in line a little bit below but
really when you look at this whole
package it just screams premium it to me
it is the best-looking compact crossover
in the segment I will make that
statement right now and there's more it
drives great and we're going to get into
that in a second now all of the Sportage
is at launch they'll come with a 2.4
liter 176 horsepower 4-cylinder engine
but later guess what there's going to be
an SX model with over 270 horsepower
it's going to be a turbocharged 2-liter
4 can you imagine 270 horsepower in a
vehicle this size that is impressive
while the Sorento the Sportage is big
brother is more about a family crossover
this vehicle the Sportage is really more
about the personal crossover and if you
compare this Sportage to the outgoing
model it's longer it's wider at
lower and it's a lot sleeker the
top-of-the-line EAX come with these
daytime running lights if they look
familiar they should a lot of the alleys
have that also you have LEDs right here
in the mirror again something that you
would find on more expensive vehicles
like the Audi nice touch
key is a company that's dedicated to
safety and is dedicated to connectivity
this vehicle is full of safety features
a ton of airbags you really got to go on
the website to check out all the safety
features too much to mention this video
this vehicle comes standard with
Bluetooth but what's great about one of
the options is UVO UVO your voice is a
Microsoft system and if you look at the
number of commands it takes to get a
function done for example I want to call
a certain person you can get it done in
less steps with you bow it so it's
really a great system and you really got
to check it out as you can see the
interior Kabat of the Sportage is really
downright premium the navigation system
adds a lot to the look and feel really
fills out the whole interior but overall
just from the sound system dual climate
zone this e^x even has heated and cooled
front seats which no other vehicle in
this segment has as far as driving the
vehicle I mean let's be honest this is
not a vehicle you're going to be taking
on on a track somewhere but running your
daily errands you know going to the
store commuting to work taking weekend
drives it's really wonderful and because
of a new c-pillar design you have really
good visibility so you've heard me say a
lot of wonderful things about the
Sportage and it is a wonderful vehicle
so what's wrong with it well really just
one thing and that's right here this bad
see when Kia did a test with this
vehicle and some of its competitors and
they hit all the badges this vehicle
rated very high but once they reveal the
badge the perception of Kia vehicles
went down with consumers and so it
really comes down to can you overcome
that perception can you be seen in a Kia
as opposed to a Toyota and a Honda and
Nissan which all your friends drive so
bottom line what's my recommendation
what what we are driving impressions
from today you know what this car
delivers if I was buying a vehicle in
this segment today I would put this car
number one I'd probably have the Tucson
number two followed by the rav4 and the
CRV and the rest of them and I'll tell
you why this car I think just looks
better than the rest of
and it doesn't fall short on the driving
so there it is great value from kia for
questions check out our website otto
tube that's auto Toob comm see you next
time behind the driver seat
you